– – <LG>West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act </LG>– <PV>Section 44 (2a)</PV>
Parties
Motahara Bibi Alias Khatun Versus State
High Court of Judicature at Calcutta
Judges THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE G.N. RAY
Appeal No. ?------DOJ 28.04.1980
ADVOCATES APPEARED:For the Appearing Parties: Mukti Maitra,S.Banerjee,Sukiran Biswas,Advocates.
Judgment
G.N. RAY, J
(1.) This Writ <FC>Petition is directed against initiation of a suo moto proceedings under section 44(2a) of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act  for revising the finally published Revisional Record of Rights</FC> relating to Khatian No. 405 of Mouza Barum within P. S. Beldanga, District Muslimabad. For the initiation of the said proceeding, a notice under   Section 57 read with Section 44 (2a) of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act was issued to the petitioner and with the said notice a copy of the order sheet of the proceeding was also served. As the order sheet containing the reasons for initiating the said suo motu proceeding has been served upon the petitioner, it is to be seen as to whether from the order sheet a case for initiation of a suo motu proceeding is prima facie made out or not.
(2.) Mrs. Maitra, learned Counsel appearing for the petitioner contended in the first place that when after completion of the stages for preparation of the draft record of rights, a finally published Revisional record of rights was prepared under   section 44(2), there was no occasion to start any suo motu proceeding under    section 44(2a). She submitted that a draft record was prepared under      Section 44(1) and ultimately on the basis of the said Draft Record of Right, the finally published Revisional Record of Rights under   Section 44(2) was prepared. If the State Government or the Revenue Authorities were aggrieved by any adjudication made under    Section 44(1) of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act  leading to final preparation .of the record of rights, the State Government could have challenged the adjudication under      Section 44(1) in the appropriate proceeding but not having done so, the Revenue Officer was not. empowered to challenge the correctness of the said record of rights in a proceeding under    section 44(2a) of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act. For the said contention, Mrs. Maitra referred to a decision of this Court made in the case of Biswanath Mandal vs. State of West Bengal reported in 78 C. W. N. at page 277. Amaresh Roy, J. held in the said decision that a record of rights was finally published after an objection 'had been considered and disposed of under    Section 44(1) of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act , 1963. No appeal was preferred against the decision of the Revenue Officer but after the final publication of the record of rights, a suo motu proceeding under    Section 44(2a) was initiated and in 'the aforesaid circumstances, it was held by His Lordship that the Officer had no jurisdiction to initiate the, proceeding under    Section 44(2a) suo motu. It has not been stated in the instant writ petition that any objection was filed against the draft record of rights under section 44(1) of the west Bengal Estates Acquisition Act  and such objection was disposed of in favour of the petitioner. Accordingly, the facts concerning the decision made in the case of Biswanath Mondal are clearly distinguishable.
(3.) Mrs. Maitra, however, contended that whenever a record of rights is finally made and finally published, it must be presumed that different stages for the preparation of the Record of Rights were gone into including the stage for deciding any objection to be made under   Section 44(1). Accordingly, whenever a Record of Rights is finally prepared and published there is no occasion for the Revenue Officer to start any suo motu proceeding. I am, however, unable to accept the said contention of Mrs. 'Maitra.     Section 44(2a) has been placed after    Section 44(2) and it has been enacted for the specific purpose of revising the record of rights finally framed and finally published under  Section 44(2) of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act . If it is held that once the record of rights is finally published comprising various stages of the preparation of the record of rights no further revision, suo moto or otherwise, under    section 44(2a) is permissible, then the very    section 44(2a) becomes nugatory and in my view the specific purpose of     Section 44(2a) is to enable the Revenue authorities to revise the finally published record of rights on the basis of either an objection made by a party within a specified time or suo moto by the Revenue authorities also within the specified time under the said provisions of     Section 44(2a). It is true that a suo moto power to revise finally published record of rights should be exercised with all care and caution and the Revenue authorities should not be permitted to initiate a suo motu proceeding arbitrarily and/or for making a roving enquiry but from the order sheet of the proceeding in question, it appears that the Revenue Authority was prima facie of the view that the petitioner in whose name the finally published record of rights stands is not a legal heir of Hazi Sr. Sarafuddin. Such record of rights was prepared without any valid instrument of transfer or evidence. Mrs. Maitra very strongly contended that the Revenue Officer was not a Civil Court and he was not competent to decide the question of title in preparing and/or revising the record of rights. The record of rights according to Mrs. Maitra is a document showing the possession of the person recorded in respect of the land in question having only a forward presumption. For the said contention, Mrs. Maitra referred to a decision of this Court made in the case of Bra/a Mohan Sarkar vs. State of West Bengal reported in 79 C.W.N. at page 1033. It was held by B. C. Roy, J. in the said decision that in a proceeding under  section 44-(2a) of the Estates Acquisition Act , 1953,the only question to be decided is whether the person in whose name the land is recorded was in possession at the date of vesting and in deciding that question the. Revenue Officer can incidentally go into the question of title, the basis of such possession but it is not within his jurisdiction to decide 'the question of title or the validity of a particular document directly in such proceeding. The Revenue Officer is also, not entitled to go into the question of the motive behind a particular document.
(4.) In the instant case, the petitioner is admittedly not an heir of Hazi S k. Sarafuddin under the Mohammedan Law. Hazi S k. Sarafuddin was the last recorded owner and according to the petitioner under a registered deed of gift Anesha Begum the wife of Hajji Sarafuddin 'Mondal got the said properties and the said Anesha Begum who was maternal grandmother of the petitioner-made an oral Heba in favour of the petitioner in respect of the lands sometimes in the year 1354' B.S. It is true that if on the face of' a document of title, a person pan claim title, the Revenue Officer is required to proceed, on the basis of such document of, title and the Revenue Officer may up to be competent to decide as to whether such document of title was otherwise invalid or not for different reasons, But if no document of title can be shown justifying; the title of a person whose name was recorded in the Revisional Record of Rights, then in a proceeding under   Section 44(2a), the Revenue Officer is competent to hold that there was no basis for recording the name, of the said person as haying title to the property. Whether there was an oral Heba in favour of the petitioner, or whether such oral Heba was never made,, is basically a question of fact and such question is not required to be decided in the instant writ petition because only a proceeding under   section 44 (2a) has been initiated and the petitioner will be entitled to place her case showing the basis of her title in the said proceeding and to lead evidences in support of her case. From the order sheet, it transpires that prima, facie there was no document indicating the, title of the petitioner and as such the Revenue Officer was prima facie of the view that the record of rights was prepared in the name of the petitioner without any basis about the title of the petitioner and as such the finally published record of rights required further revision under   section 44(2a).
(5.) Mrs. Maitranext contended that the brother of the petitioner has instituted a Title Suit in the first Court of the learned Munsif at Berhampore being Title Suit No. 316 of 1979, inter alia, claiming title to the suit property. Mrs. Maitra contended that where such a title suit was pending between the brother and sister, no suo moto proceeding could be initiated by the Revenue Officer for revising the record of rights. In any event, the suo moto proceeding should have been stayed by the Revenue Officer pending the disposal of the said Civil suit where adjudication of the title between the parties will be made by a competent civil court. For this contention, Mrs. Maitra referred to a Bench decision of this Court made in the case of Jitendra Nath Rakshit vs. Sudhir Kumar Rakshit reported in 65 C. W. N. at page 738. It appears from the said decision that between two rival claimants in respect of a, certain plot of land, two title suits were instituted by both the parties and in view of the pendency of the said title suits between the parties, the Revenue Officer rejected an application made under   Section 44(2a) for revising the record of rights and on an appeal made under section 44(3) of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act , the learned District Judge also dismissed the appeal taking the view that when title suits over the disputed property had been filed by both the parties the authorities should await the decision made in the said title suits. It was held by the Division Bench in the said decision that in view of the pendency of the title suits filed by both the parties in respect of the disputed property, the question of the title and possession should be left to be finally decided in the said suits and it was proper on the part of the Revenue Officer and the District Judge (Appellate Tribunal) not to try and decide any question of title in a summary proceeding under   section 44(2a) of the west Bengal Estates Acquisition Act . In my view, the said decision is also not applicable to the facts and circumstances of the case. Firstly, the 44(2a) proceeding has not been initiated in the instant case on the basis of an application made by a rival claimant when a title suit between the rival claimants is pending. In the instant case, the brother of the petitioner is claiming title on the basis of an alleged oral Heba and in the said Title Suit the State Government has not been impleaded. It may be noted that the State Govt. not being a party to a suit will not be bound by the adjudication made either on contest or by compromise in the Title Suit if it can be successfully established that neither of the parties in the said suit had Really got the property by the alleged oral Heba. Where a proceeding under    section 44(2a) is initiated on the basis of an application made by a party and the title of the property is in dispute between the two rival parties and the State Government has no objection if the name of the successful party is recorded in the record of rights, then it is only but proper as held by the Division Bench in the aforesaid decision that the Revenue authority should wait till the decision is made by the Civil Court. It should be noted that the record of fights is not a document of title as such but it is basically a document showing possession of the person recorded in the record of rights and such possession has only a forward presumption. But in the record of rights the nature of possession, namely, whether as a tenant or otherwise is got to be recorded and for the said purpose prima facie title is required to be gone into by the revenue 'and settlement authorities. The Revenue authorities has not yet made any adjudication on the basis of the contention made or to be made by the petitioner in the said suo moto proceeding. In, this writ petition, a challenge has been thrown on the jurisdiction of the officer to initiate the suo moto proceeding under  section 44(2a) of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act  and at this stage it is only to be seen as to whether, such a proceeding has been lawfully initiated or not.
(6.) Mrs. Maitra lastly contended that time to initiate suo moto proceeding has bean extended from time to time by amending   section 44(2a) and by the last amendment such extension of time was made up to a period of 25 years from the date of final publication of the record of rights. Mrs. Maitra contended that the said amendment of    Section 44(2a) extending the period to start suo moto proceeding for a period up to 25 years from the date of the final publication of the' Revisional record of rights is ultra vires the Constitution. In my view, it is not. necessary to decide the said contention at this stage. On the face of the provision of    Section 44(2a) of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act  as amended, the Revenue Officer is competent to initiate the instant suo moto proceeding and in the facts and circumstances of the case it does not appear to me that such initiation of suo moto proceeding was made arbitrarily on in colorable exercise of power. In my view, Mrs. Biswas, the learned Counsel for the State, in quite justified in contending that the instant writ petition is premature and. no interference in writ jurisdiction is called for at this stage. The writ application is accordingly dismissed but I make no order as to costs. Application rejected. No costs.
