


Parties
Monimala Bose Versus Bhusanmondal
High Court of Judicature at Calcutta
Judges THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE S.K. DATTA
C.R. Nos. 3409 and 3410 of 1973DOJ 12.03.1979
ADVOCATES APPEARED:For the Appearing Parties: Arit Kumar Sarkar,Prasanta Kumar Bandopadhyay,Advocates.
Judgment
SIALIL KUMAR DATTA, J.
(1) THE appellate orders in M. P. Cases Nos. 59 and 60 of 1972 passed by the learnesd sub-divisional Officer, Burdwan on june 1973 have been challenged in these two Rules. It appears that the predecessor-in-interest of petitioners Nos. 1 (a) to 1 (i) and petitioners Nos. 2 and 3 filed an application before the Bhagchas Officer kalna giving rise to Case no. 3 of 1963 claiming share of the produce for 1368. and 1369 B. ' S. in respect of dags Nos. 385 and 439 of khatian No. 50 of Pargana Raipur, Mouza mirpur, P. S. Kalna Dist. Burdwan. In the other case being B. C. Case No. 12 of 1967 the petitioners prayed for termination of bhag system in respect of the suit lands on account 'of failure by the opposite party to deliver the bhag produce. The applications were opposed and in the-written objection it. was stated that the applicants had eight annas share in the disputed properties. The bhagchas Officer, Kalna in a trial on evidence held analogously dismissed both. the application on the ground that the petitioners had failed to establish by evidence that the relationship between them and the opposite party was that of owner and bargadar. The Bhagchas Officer considered the dispute on two,, issues, namely, (1) whether the plaintiffs had adduced "sufficient reasons to believe that the opposite party was the bargadar under them" in respect of the. suit lands and (2) whether the plaintiffs are the only owners of the suit lands. Both the issues, it appears, were found against the petitioners.
(2) <FC>ON appeal the learned Subdivisional Officer, Burdwan was of opinion that the determination of the controversy depended upon the determination of question of title of the suit lands which the appellate authority had no jurisdiction to make. </FC>" In this view he directed the parties in appeals there from to take necessary steps in Civil court regarding the same. The rules are directed against this order. Sections 18, 19 and 21 of the <LG>West bengal Land Reforms Act , 1955</LG> are as follows : ?.-
jurisdiction to decide certain disputes :- ?. (1) Every dispute between a bagadar and the person whose land he cultivates in respect of 'any of the following matters, namely : ? (a) a division or delivery of the produce; (b) recovery of produce under  section 16a  (p) termination of cultivation by the bargadar shall be decided by such officer or authority as the State government may appoint provided that no application for decision of any dispute in respect of the delivery of the produce referred. to in clause (a) shall be entertained unless such application is presented to the officer or authority within two years from the date en which the delivery of the produce falls due. (2)If in deciding any dispute referred to in sub-section (1) or otherwise any question arises as to- whether a person is a bargadar or not and to whom the share of the produce is deliverable, such question shall be determined by the officer or authority mentioned in sub-section (1). 19. Appeal (1) ,an appeal shall lie 'to the ? Sub-divisional Officer having jurisdiction over the area in which the land is situated against any order made under   section 17 or ?section 18 except where such order was made with the consent of the parties to the dispute. . . . . . . . 21. Bar of jurisdiction.-- (1) No order or other proceedings whatsoever under this , Chapter (Chapter III bargadars wards underlined supplied) shall be questioned in any civil court and no civil Court shall entertain any suit or proceeding in respect of any matter mentioned in   sections 17 and 18. (3) If any question as to whether a person is or is not a bargadrarises in the course of any proceedings before any Civil or Criminal count, the Court shall refer it to the Officer or authority mentioned in sub-section (1) of   Section 18 for decision. "
(3) IT will appear from the above provisions' that the <HDjurisdiction to decide any question in respect of matters referred to   Section 18 (1)has been conferred exclusively, on the officer or the authority mentioned there in. The jurisdiction of all courts has been "expressly taken away in respect of adjudication of the matters referred to above. When a question of title requires to be decided in corning to a finding as to whether a person is a bargadar or not, and to whom share of produce is to be delivered, such questions under the above provisions will have to be decided by the officer or authority appointed for the purpose. If such determination of the matters referred to above involves a determination of the quantum of interest of the persons in the lands in question for receiving the bhag produce and other allied matters like, the termination of bhag system, the same shall also be decided by such officer or authority under the aforesaid provisions. The decision- in respect of such matters will be incidental to but necessary for the decision or matters which are within the exclusive jurisdiction of such officer or authority. The position will be otherwise when the rival owners clash for determination of their respective shares in- disputed lands where the bargadar is not interested or ,a necessary or proper party.
(4) THE Sub-divisional Officer as the appellate authority is also ?required to decide all such questions relevant under   Section 18 (1) as the officer or authority there under when. appeals are preferred before him against orders of such officer or authority in absence of restriction in law. The Sub-divisional officer thus failed to exercise jurisdiction vested in him under the laws we have referred to above.
(5) IT is accordingly fit and proper that the records should be sent down to the Sub-divisional Officer; Burdwan for adjudication on the controversy between the parties. Article 14 of the Constitution </HD>because it has been enforced in certain areas of west Bengal and not to others.
