– Parties
Mamuda Khateen Versus Beniyan Bibi
High Court of Judicature at Calcutta
Judges THE HONOURABLE CHIEF JUSTICE MR. SANKAR PRASAD MITRA, THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE SABYASACHI MUKHERJI &amp; THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE SALIL KUMAR DATTA
Full Bench Reference 1 Of 1974 in S. A. T. No. 2788 of 1973DOJ 12.08.1976
ADVOCATES APPEARED:For the Appearing Parties: Asim Banerjee,Bimal Jyotsna Chatterji,Malay Kumar Basu,Advocates.
Judgment
SANKAR PRASAD MITRA, C.J.
<FC>(1) THIS matter has been referred under Chapter VII, Rule 2 of the Appellate Side Rules  to a larger Bench by a Division Bench consisting of Mr. Justice A, C. Gupta and Mr. Justice S. C. Deb for a decision on the following question: is an order rejecting the memorandum of appeal following the rejection of application underSection 5 of the Limitation Act for condonation of the delay in filing the appeal a decree ?
(2) IN the instant case, the proposed appeal to the first appellate Court, namely, the Court of the District Judge, was barred by limitation. An application was made underSection 5 of the Limitation Act for condonation of delay and the memorandum of appeal was sought to be filed along with the application. The application under    Section 5 was rejected. It also appears that an order was made rejecting the memorandum of appeal. M</FC>The q<IS>uestion is whether the order rejecting the memorandum following the rejection of the application under    Section 5 is a decree.</IS>
(3) THE referring Bench has noted a few conflicting decisions of this Court. In Sudhansu Bhusan Pandey v. Majhe Bibi, reported in (1938) 42 Cal WN 72 Mr. Justice Biswas expressed a tentative view that an order rejecting the memorandum of appeal would be a decree.
(4) IN Rakhal Chandra Ghosh v. Ashutosh Ghosh, (1913) 17 Cal WN 807 a Division Bench of this Court held that an order by an appellate Court rejecting an appeal before it has been admitted, on the ground that it was presented out of time, is a decree within the meaning of the definition of Sub-section (2) of  Section 2Code of Civil Procedure.
(5) A contrary view was taken by another Division Bench. In Jnanadasundari Shaha v. Madhabchandra Mala, (ILR 59Cal388 = (AIR 1932Cal482). It was held that an order rejecting a memorandum of appeal, written on paper insufficiently stamped, for non-payment of the deficit court-fee within the time allowed by the Court, was not a decree within the meaning of Sub-section (2) of   Section 2 of the Code.
(6) THIS judgment in ILR 59 Cal 388 = (AIR 1932 Cal 482
) was followed by a Division Bench of Mr. Justice Nasim AH and Mr. Justice Henderson in Charusila Dasi v. Abhilas Bauri. 40 Cal WN 1149 = (AIR 1936 Cal 804
). This Division Bench also held that an order rejecting the memorandum of appeal was not a decree.
(7) IT seems to us that when an appeal is barred by limitation and an application is made underSection 5 of the Limitation Act for condonation of the delay along with the memorandum of appeal, until the application under    Section 5 is allowed the appeal cannot be filed or admitted at all. In other words, till a favourable order is made on the application under    Section 5 the appeal is non est. In that event, the question of rejecting a memorandum of appeal does not arise at all at this stage.
<HD>(8) IF the application under  Section 5 be rejected the order rejecting the application cannot be a decree. And the order rejecting the memoraundum of appeal is merely an incidental order.
(9) OUR answer therefore to the question referred to us is that an order rejecting the memorandum of appeal following the rejection of an application underSection 5 of the Limitation Act for condonation of the delay in filing the appeal is not a decree but an order against which an application in revision under   Section 115 of the Code may lie but no appeal under Order 43, Rule 1 of the Code can be preferred.
(10) IN the premises aforesaid, the <DP>appeal is dismissed. </DP>There will be no order as to costs.
(11) WE are told that the appellants have also made an application under   Section 115 of the Code read with   Section 5. They would be at liberty to proceed with the said application if so advised.</HD>
